Add `The Followpoint: Azer, the Tournament Titan` news post (#13123)
ppy/osu-wiki: news/2025/2025-04-15-the-followpoint-azer-the-tournament-titan.md

---
layout: post
title: "The Followpoint: Azer, the Tournament Titan"
date: 2025-04-15 17:00:00 +0000
series: The Followpoint
---

> You hear that? That's a sound of a new interview — this time with a renowned player and World Cup organiser, Azer!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You hear that? That's the sound of a new interview — this time with renowned player and World Cup organiser, Azer!
```

Author: I don't think you are supposed to remove second `a` here (before `renowned`) tbh

Reviewer: Yes you are, the usage of "a" would imply any random sound, which doesn't fit here because it's directly tied to the interview.

![](/wiki/shared/news/2025-04-15-the-followpoint-azer-the-tournament-titan/banner.jpg)

> [Azer](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/2155578) is someone you have likely heard of if you are interested in osu! World Cups, and especially if you are an older player. He's contributed a lot to the tournament scene, earning multiple [badges](/wiki/Community/Profile_badge) in his time playing. He has also contributed heavily to the osu! World Cups, ranging from pooling to organising the entire thing! Not to mention that he also received a [Community Contributor badge](/wiki/People/Community_Contributors) for his dedicated work!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Azer](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/2155578) is someone you have likely heard of if you are interested in osu! World Cups, and especially if you are an older player. He's contributed a lot to the tournament scene, earning multiple [badges](/wiki/Community/Profile_badge) throughout his time playing. He has also contributed heavily to the osu! World Cups, ranging from pooling to organising the entire thing! Not to mention that he also received a [Community Contributor badge](/wiki/People/Community_Contributors) for his dedicated work!
```

<a class="avatar news-chat-quote__avatar" href="https://osu.ppy.sh/users/18152711" style="background-image: url('/wiki/shared/avatars/MegaMix.jpg')"></a>

<p class="news-chat-quote__username"><a class="news-chat-quote__colour-lvd" href="https://osu.ppy.sh/users/18152711">MegaMix</a></p>

Is there a specific memory from osu! that stands out to you? If so, which one?

<a class="avatar news-chat-quote__avatar" href="https://osu.ppy.sh/users/2155578" style="background-image: url('/wiki/shared/avatars/Azer.jpg')"></a>

<p class="news-chat-quote__username"><a class="news-chat-quote__colour-gmt" href="https://osu.ppy.sh/users/2155578">Azer</a></p>

> It's hard to choose one, since I've been in this community for almost half of my entire life now, but if I had to choose one really early on that I remember very fondly, it was my [very first match in OWC 2013](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tCaXKs4z5TU). I had only been playing for a year, and our team (Canada) was not particularly high level or expected to win anything. Our first match in the group stage just happened to be against the strongest team in the tournament - Japan.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's hard to choose one, since I've been in this community for almost half my life now, but if I had to choose one really early on that I remember very fondly, it was my [very first match in OWC 2013](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tCaXKs4z5TU). I had only been playing for a year, and our team (Canada) was not particularly high level or expected to win anything. Our first match in the group stage just happened to be against the strongest team in the tournament - Japan.
```

The match started, and we were literally 8 noobs against the biggest names in the game, including the world's best player, [rrtyui](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/352328). We played the first map, just expecting to have fun being there and... somehow won? We won our first pick against the tournament favourites, it was pretty insane at the time. Of course, we proceeded to lose every remaining map as expected, but I'll cherish that moment forever.

That match came with a little extra as well! Unfortunately the video is lost media, but as the match ended, for whatever reason I was given host in the multiplayer room. Everyone else had left... except for rrtyui. If you know this player from this time, you know exactly what he was known for, so of course being gifted this situation I did what needed to be done... I picked [The Big Black](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/41823) and readied up. I wasn't really expecting anything to happen, but the stream kept going, the casters were confused but optimistic, and the best player in the game readied up on his iconic map in a 1v1 against some random Canadian guy he probably never heard of.

> So we played, the chat was really happy to see rrtyui play this map live, the casters were having fun with the situation as well, and eventually the map was cut-off and never reached the end. Let it be known that on this day, I beat rrtyui on The Big Black (he failed the infamous ending before I did, so the map ended... lol).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So we played, the chat was really happy to see rrtyui play this map live, the casters were having fun with the situation as well, and eventually the map was cut-off and never reached the end. Let it be known that, on this day, I beat rrtyui on The Big Black (he failed the infamous ending before I did, so the map ended... lol).
```

It was a completely meaningless situation just for fun, but it meant a lot to me at the time and probably was a big reason why I eventually ended up being so involved with competition in the game.

<a class="avatar news-chat-quote__avatar" href="https://osu.ppy.sh/users/18152711" style="background-image: url('/wiki/shared/avatars/MegaMix.jpg')"></a>

<p class="news-chat-quote__username"><a class="news-chat-quote__colour-lvd" href="https://osu.ppy.sh/users/18152711">MegaMix</a></p>

What would you say is the greatest gift that osu! has given you?

<a class="avatar news-chat-quote__avatar" href="https://osu.ppy.sh/users/2155578" style="background-image: url('/wiki/shared/avatars/Azer.jpg')"></a>

<p class="news-chat-quote__username"><a class="news-chat-quote__colour-gmt" href="https://osu.ppy.sh/users/2155578">Azer</a></p>

> The best thing osu! has given me is definitely the sense of community! To be able to join here when it was much smaller and make so many close friendships, getting to see it grow into what it is now, the thousands of people I've met that have come and go, for sure. Almost everything in my life somehow links back to this game. Most of my friends on and offline, my career opportunities, etc. It gave me a space to discover a niche talent and do something interesting with my music & gaming interests (both have been a major part of my life since I was 5 years old). It essentially awakened and defined what my passions are, and allowed me to connect with people worldwide who happen to share them too. I really wouldn't trade such a unique experience for anything.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The best thing osu! has given me is definitely the sense of community! Being able to join here when it was much smaller and make so many close friends, getting to see it grow into what it is now, the thousands of people I've met that have come and go, for sure. Almost everything in my life somehow links back to this game. Most of my friends on and offline, my career opportunities, etc. It gave me a space to discover a niche talent and do something interesting with my music & gaming interests (both have been a major part of my life since I was 5 years old). It essentially awakened and defined what my passions are, and allowed me to connect with people worldwide who happen to share them too. I really wouldn't trade such a unique experience for anything.
```

<a class="avatar news-chat-quote__avatar" href="https://osu.ppy.sh/users/18152711" style="background-image: url('/wiki/shared/avatars/MegaMix.jpg')"></a>

<p class="news-chat-quote__username"><a class="news-chat-quote__colour-lvd" href="https://osu.ppy.sh/users/18152711">MegaMix</a></p>

How do you stay motivated even after a decade of being an active osu! player and a community figure? Did you ever feel like you wanted to quit, and if so, how did you deal with such feelings?

<a class="avatar news-chat-quote__avatar" href="https://osu.ppy.sh/users/2155578" style="background-image: url('/wiki/shared/avatars/Azer.jpg')"></a>

<p class="news-chat-quote__username"><a class="news-chat-quote__colour-gmt" href="https://osu.ppy.sh/users/2155578">Azer</a></p>

> My motivation mostly lies in my desire to give back and to contribute to what made this place so special to me. I want to preserve it and improve it however I can to ensure new players get to have as good of a time I got to have. When it comes to quitting, I've technically already quit competitive play long ago, but I'm sure I'll always be here to check on things for years to come. When so much of your life was forged around your experiences and connections here, the saying is true. You are here forever. I think it's easy to stay motivated and find new ways to help people and improve the experience in whatever limited ways I may be able to. It's like decorating my second home. I live here, so it might as well be nice!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
My motivation mostly lies in my desire to give back and to contribute to what made this place so special to me. I want to preserve it and improve it however I can to ensure new players get to have as good of a time I got to have. When it comes to quitting, I've technically already quit competitive play long ago, but I'm sure I'll always be here to check on things for years to come. When so much of your life has been forged around your experiences and connections here, the saying is true. You are here forever. I think it's easy to stay motivated and find new ways to help people and improve the experience in whatever limited ways I may be able to. It's like decorating my second home. I live here, so it might as well be nice!
```

<a class="avatar news-chat-quote__avatar" href="https://osu.ppy.sh/users/18152711" style="background-image: url('/wiki/shared/avatars/MegaMix.jpg')"></a>

<p class="news-chat-quote__username"><a class="news-chat-quote__colour-lvd" href="https://osu.ppy.sh/users/18152711">MegaMix</a></p>

What does the osu! World Cup sound team do?

<a class="avatar news-chat-quote__avatar" href="https://osu.ppy.sh/users/2155578" style="background-image: url('/wiki/shared/avatars/Azer.jpg')"></a>

<p class="news-chat-quote__username"><a class="news-chat-quote__colour-gmt" href="https://osu.ppy.sh/users/2155578">Azer</a></p>

> It's not really a real team to be fair, I just like the name but it represents the small team we have in place to create osu! originals and help them flourish. For the most part it's just [mangomizer](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/1893718) and myself, but lately we have also benefited from the help of [Kry.exe](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmaps/artists/448), who is one of very few people who hold all the criteria required to contribute to what we do. We essentially provide production feedback to artists we work with in order to create memorable experiences for world cup events. It can be music related, or suitability to gamemode or intent, it can be fixes intended for gameplay etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's not really an official team to be fair, I just like the name because it represents the small team we have in place to create osu! originals and help them flourish. For the most part it's just [mangomizer](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/1893718) and myself, but lately we have also benefited from the help of [Kry.exe](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmaps/artists/448), who is one of very few people who hold all the criteria required to contribute to what we do. We essentially provide production feedback to artists we work with in order to create memorable experiences for world cup events. It can be music related, or suitability to gamemode or intent, it can be fixes intended for gameplay etc.
```

[OWC 2017 vs Germany: Oriental Blossom](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pll8GQvpUUk)

During this year of OWC, I was really making a name for myself being one of the most prominent players of tech/gimmick picks. The week prior, I [SS'd sewing machine](https://youtu.be/Y7DsOtMKfaI?si=z8uV1yWkSg1iseW0&t=3931) against Austria and proved that these types of maps were really dangerous to play against us. A week later, it was picked against germany and despite that team being astronomically favored to win against us (this is the only map we won lol), it felt great to do it again and showing that it wasn't a fluke the first time!

[OWC 2018 vs Australia: First pick strategy](https://youtu.be/xGXobUU6wdY?si=yQjhdUfAI4AxqPUi&t=592) (This video has corrupt audio near the end of the first map, sorry!)

> This one requires some context, but I felt like I had to include this moment as a captain and not as a player. We had a really tough matchup against team Australia, who this year (and ever since) was arguably the strongest speed/DT roster of the entire tournament. We knew for SURE that they would win the 2 remaining picks of that type we could not ban out, so instead of letting that happen, I came up with the idea of grabbing the first pick and preying on tournament nerves being at their highest on match start. This was 100% lost in normal conditions and everyone in my team knew this. We essentially stole one of their best picks and forced them to play it at the worst possible conditions, while the rest of our team just had fun **assuming that the pick would be lost**. As it turns out, when you play with no nerves with the expectation of losing, you end up playing pretty well, so we somehow won that pick due to this strategy. It was extremely crucial in the match and took us to tiebreaker, which we also ended up winning. This is definitely still the best tournament strategy I came up with to this day!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This one requires some context, but I felt like I had to include this moment as a captain rather than as a player. We had a really tough matchup against team Australia, who this year (and ever since) was arguably the strongest speed/DT roster of the entire tournament. We knew for SURE that they would win the 2 remaining picks of that type we could not ban out, so instead of letting that happen, I came up with the idea of grabbing the first pick and preying on tournament nerves being at their highest on match start. This was 100% lost in normal conditions and everyone in my team knew this. We essentially stole one of their best picks and forced them to play it at the worst possible conditions, while the rest of our team just had fun **assuming that the pick would be lost**. As it turns out, when you play with no nerves with the expectation of losing, you end up playing pretty well, so we somehow won that pick due to this strategy. It was extremely crucial in the match and took us to tiebreaker, which we also ended up winning. This is definitely still the best tournament strategy I came up with to this day!
```

<a class="avatar news-chat-quote__avatar" href="https://osu.ppy.sh/users/18152711" style="background-image: url('/wiki/shared/avatars/MegaMix.jpg')"></a>

<p class="news-chat-quote__username"><a class="news-chat-quote__colour-lvd" href="https://osu.ppy.sh/users/18152711">MegaMix</a></p>

[Did we kick a kid?](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmaps/artists/200) :tf:

<a class="avatar news-chat-quote__avatar" href="https://osu.ppy.sh/users/2155578" style="background-image: url('/wiki/shared/avatars/Azer.jpg')"></a>

<p class="news-chat-quote__username"><a class="news-chat-quote__colour-gmt" href="https://osu.ppy.sh/users/2155578">Azer</a></p>

> You know, I don't think this part of the meme comes from me or my community, I could be wrong but I really don't remember any presence associated with it. I think it came later from someone else getting a play on it or the other mapset, maybe. I don't really mind it though, since people mostly link it to the song. Funny story, I made friends with a new player somewhat recently and they were curious about the history of the game and various figures within it, so eventually they asked who I was, and the answer they got from their friend was simply that "I kick kids". No other context was ever given. This is my legacy, I guess..?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You know, I don't think this part of the meme comes from me or my community, I could be wrong but I really don't remember any presence associated with it. I think it came later from someone else getting a play on it or the other mapset, maybe. I don't really mind it, though, since people mostly link it to the song. Funny story, I made friends with a new player somewhat recently and they were curious about the history of the game and various figures within it, so eventually they asked who I was, and the answer they got from their friend was simply that "I kick kids". No other context was ever given. This is my legacy, I guess..?
```

<p class="news-chat-quote__username"><a class="news-chat-quote__colour-gmt" href="https://osu.ppy.sh/users/2155578">Azer</a></p>

Before osu!, I played a lot of shooter and MMO games, and was already doing content creation for several years already, so I'm sure I would've kept going in that direction. I played a lot of Call of Duty and Counter Strike, and I got really hooked on Overwatch when it initially released (I was semi pro for a year or two) so I think that would have been the most likely!

<a class="avatar news-chat-quote__avatar" href="https://osu.ppy.sh/users/18152711" style="background-image: url('/wiki/shared/avatars/MegaMix.jpg')"></a>

<p class="news-chat-quote__username"><a class="news-chat-quote__colour-lvd" href="https://osu.ppy.sh/users/18152711">MegaMix</a></p>

If you could meet any osu! player IRL, who would you want to meet the most, and why?

<a class="avatar news-chat-quote__avatar" href="https://osu.ppy.sh/users/2155578" style="background-image: url('/wiki/shared/avatars/Azer.jpg')"></a>

<p class="news-chat-quote__username"><a class="news-chat-quote__colour-gmt" href="https://osu.ppy.sh/users/2155578">Azer</a></p>

> Honestly this list is filled with tons of European players I never got to meet. I've been to most parts of NA and met a few Japanese players, but never got to go to [COE](/wiki/Community/cavoe's_osu!_event) or anything so I'd love to hangout with some other long time players from there, probably [Bubbleman](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/5182050) and [Rafis](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/2558286).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Honestly this list is filled with tons of European players I never got to meet. I've been to most parts of NA and met a few Japanese players, but never got to go to [COE](/wiki/Community/cavoe's_osu!_event) or anything so I'd love to hang out with some other long time players from there, probably [Bubbleman](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/5182050) and [Rafis](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/2558286).
```

<a class="avatar news-chat-quote__avatar" href="https://osu.ppy.sh/users/18152711" style="background-image: url('/wiki/shared/avatars/MegaMix.jpg')"></a>

<p class="news-chat-quote__username"><a class="news-chat-quote__colour-lvd" href="https://osu.ppy.sh/users/18152711">MegaMix</a></p>

If osu! ever introduced a new, 5th game mode, what do you think it should be? What's your vision on what could potentially be made into said game mode?

<a class="avatar news-chat-quote__avatar" href="https://osu.ppy.sh/users/2155578" style="background-image: url('/wiki/shared/avatars/Azer.jpg')"></a>

<p class="news-chat-quote__username"><a class="news-chat-quote__colour-gmt" href="https://osu.ppy.sh/users/2155578">Azer</a></p>

> Considering that all the osu! modes take inspiration from other existing games, I feel like they all cover most of what's possible on PC hardware, so it's hard to say. If there's one thing that could be possible, it could be more of a visually focused experience like Geometry Dash or Groove Coaster, maybe? Outside of that, I think that most other interesting experiences require specific inputs that aren't really possible or intuitive on mouse/keyboard, so I doubt they would ever be attempted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Considering that all the osu! modes take inspiration from other existing games, I feel like they all cover most of what's possible on PC hardware, so it's hard to say. If there's one thing that might be possible, it could be more of a visually focused experience like Geometry Dash or Groove Coaster, maybe? Outside of that, I think that most other interesting experiences require specific inputs that aren't really possible or intuitive on mouse/keyboard, so I doubt they would ever be attempted.
```

<a class="avatar news-chat-quote__avatar" href="https://osu.ppy.sh/users/18152711" style="background-image: url('/wiki/shared/avatars/MegaMix.jpg')"></a>

<p class="news-chat-quote__username"><a class="news-chat-quote__colour-lvd" href="https://osu.ppy.sh/users/18152711">MegaMix</a></p>

Do you still have some goal in osu! you'd like to achieve?

<a class="avatar news-chat-quote__avatar" href="https://osu.ppy.sh/users/2155578" style="background-image: url('/wiki/shared/avatars/Azer.jpg')"></a>

<p class="news-chat-quote__username"><a class="news-chat-quote__colour-gmt" href="https://osu.ppy.sh/users/2155578">Azer</a></p>

> Honestly if there's one thing left for me to try one day, it would be to make a complete package by myself. I've already achieved everything I wanted in solo, in tournaments, as a mapper and lately as a creative with how well structured our original releases are and the sheer quality that we're able to consistently output. I love being able to have these tournament releases and see everyone's reaction and excitement! It's really nice to be able to look at something like that and say, we made that. It's hard to quantify this but I also feel like I've met my goal of improving the scene in any area I can, so I've mostly achieved everything I set my eyes on. One thing remains, but considering my knowledge of music production, I'd like to have a proper magnum opus project, mapping my own music. It almost happened a few times already, but I still feel that I have more to learn in both categories to be able to really be proud of it and to match my standards of quality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Honestly if there's one thing left for me to try one day, it would be to make a complete package by myself. I've already achieved everything I wanted in solo, in tournaments, as a mapper and lately as a creative with how well structured our original releases are and the sheer quality that we're able to consistently output. I love being able to have these tournament releases and see everyone's reaction and excitement! It's really nice to be able to look at something like that and say, we made that. It's hard to quantify this but I also feel like I've met my goal of improving the scene in any area I can, so I've mostly achieved everything I set my eyes on. One thing remains, but considering my knowledge of music production, I'd like to create a proper magnum opus project, mapping my own music. It almost happened a few times already, but I still feel that I have more to learn in both categories to be able to really be proud of it and to match my standards of quality.
```

<p class="news-chat-quote__username"><a class="news-chat-quote__colour-lvd" href="https://osu.ppy.sh/users/18152711">MegaMix</a></p>

And as a last question, do you have anything else that you'd like to mention?

<a class="avatar news-chat-quote__avatar" href="https://osu.ppy.sh/users/2155578" style="background-image: url('/wiki/shared/avatars/Azer.jpg')"></a>

<p class="news-chat-quote__username"><a class="news-chat-quote__colour-gmt" href="https://osu.ppy.sh/users/2155578">Azer</a></p>

One big personal reason for why I still spend so much time within this community is that I really want to make it the best it can be, to leave a positive influence for how much time I've spent here and how many people I got to interact with. I think it's important for everyone to understand that a lot of the core foundation pillars under us rely on the goodwill of people with similar values, so I find it crucial to make sure those people find their time worthwhile. Be nice and respectful to everyone, and the experience you live here will give back.

> A game like this has the tendency to give a big spotlight on people in very formative periods of their lives, and often they might not understand the amount of influence they may spontaneously have, so I feel the need to say these things as someone who experienced that and took a bit too long to understand how to handle it. osu! isn't a mega corporation filled with shareholders and all, it's built on passionate people like you and I, just here to make interesting things happen. Let's make sure we do our best to keep those people motivated. Thank you for reading!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A game like this has the tendency to give a big spotlight on people in very formative periods of their lives, and often they might not understand the amount of influence they may spontaneously have, so I feel the need to say these things as someone who experienced that and took a bit too long to understand how to handle it. osu! isn't a mega corporation filled with shareholders and all, it's built on passionate people like you and me, just here to make interesting things happen. Let's make sure we do our best to keep those people motivated. Thank you for reading!
```
